

To invest in an ICO (Initial Coin Offering) is to act as a venture capitalist. As such, you need a framework for evaluating the business venture.

The purpose of an ICO is not for entrepreneurs to get rich; rather, to provide necessary startup funding. The ICO is a powerful crowd-funding mechanism that can bring a good idea to life. In return, investors are rewarded with something of great potential value: a digital token. If an ICO is used for the purpose it was intended, everybody wins.
As a Blockchain entrepreneur planning an ICO, my venture is asking investors for only the amount of funding required to succeed. The legitimate way for an entrepreneur to earn great wealth is to create something that delivers value and revenue. That is my job. Don’t distract me by making me rich before I’ve earned it.
There are 5 key questions to help investors evaluate an ICO.

1) Is there is a need for the product in the marketplace?
Do you understand the product? Do you know the market? What has the organization done to prove that there is a demand? Who is the customer? What problem is being solved for the customer? Would you use it or do you know someone who would? Will solving that problem change the world? Does the cause feel good and inspire passion?
2) Is there a legitimate requirement for capital?
Why does the organization need funding? Do you understand what the funding is to be used for, who it will be going to, and for what purpose? Are you sure the purpose of the ICO is not to enrich the founders? Do they already have access to the funds they are seeking? If so, why are they asking for your money and not investing their own?
I am the founder of a Blockchain Platform called “I am” by Infobeing (www.infobeing.com). Prior to our November ICO, we will be forthcoming about how much funding we need, exactly where it will be going, and for what purpose.
3) Is there a solid business plan and revenue model?
Is this a paid product? Is the model based on advertising? Is the revenue model based on charging a transaction fee? Is it based on the speculative value of a digital asset?
All these models are potentially profitable if there is inherent value in the offering, but make sure you understand what the revenue model is. What is the time-to-market? When will the venture begin generating a positive cash-flow? Does this seem acceptable?
4) Is the product design elegant and viable?
It isn’t enough for startup founders to say what they are doing and why, they also need to explain how. As you consider the how, you should also consider whether the scope is narrow enough. Does it sound doable? Are they focused on the 20% of functionality that delivers 80% of the value?
5) Can the founders be trusted to do what they say they are going to do? Do you know the person’s character?
As an investor, you are an essential partner in the success of a venture. Your role is as valuable as that of the CEO. Without you, nothing will happen. You should have access. Get to know the founders. Do you see signs of ego, rigidity, or greed? Is there anything you don’t trust about the person or any red flags? If so, find a different investment (there are plenty to choose from).
Before sending your money, ask yourself these 5 questions. Get to know the individuals. Follow your intuition and logic, not your emotions. Successful investors are those who can see through hype and ignore the crowd. Consistent profits are achieved by those who know how to identify value, calmly make a move, and then unemotionally stick to a plan. Be that investor.

The Blockchain Revolution is real. Despite the hype, the significance of this movement is still under-appreciated. Decentralization represents a fundamental shift—something far better than Capitalism as we know it. What is being created with these bold new ventures is a new economic system, beyond the reach of centralized institutions, capable of delivering unlimited abundance and freedom. It is not too late to be a first-mover. If you choose wisely, your upside is unlimited.
While the movement is real, those who do not understand it will be scammed—not just by leeching hackers, but also by greedy entrepreneurs who are making hundreds of millions of dollars on ICOs backed by hype and empty promises alone. Use these 5 questions to achieve massive upside while mitigating unnecessary risk.
Watch the 2-minute explainer video at www.infobeing.com.
